Title: Feasibility of telehealth exercise and nicotinamide riboside supplementation in survivors of childhood cancer at risk for diabetes: A pilot randomized controlled trial.
Journal: Pediatric blood & cancer
Year: 2025
Authors: Bhandari R, Lukas K, Lee K, Shamunee J, Almeida B, Guzman T, Echevarria M, Lindenfeld L, Nenninger C, Iukuridze A, Albanese S, Rhee JW, Chen S, Brenner C, Wong FL, Armenian SH

Abstract:
[BACKGROUND] Childhood cancer survivors (CCS) have a 50% higher risk of diabetes mellitus (DM) compared with the general population. Interventions in survivors with prediabetes (fasting glucose 100-125 mg/dL or hemoglobin A1c 5.7%-6.4%) may mitigate the development of DM and its attendant morbidity, but there is limited information on the feasibility of secondary prevention in this setting.
[METHODS] This 6-week pilot feasibility 1:1 randomized controlled trial enrolled 20 CCS on a structured telehealth exercise program ± nicotinamide riboside (NR), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide precursor. Feasibility metrics were: (1) ≥50% of eligible CCS enrolled onto study; (2) ≥70% of participants completed baseline and end-of-study assessments; (3) ≥70% compliance with exercise and NR. Secondary endpoints included changes in biomarkers associated with glucose homeostasis and muscle health.
[RESULTS] Median age (years) at cancer diagnosis was 16.5 (range, 1.5-21.5) and 35.5 (range, 18.0-67.0) at study enrollment. Enrollment rate was 87%, and 85% of participants completed baseline and end-of-study assessments. The mean percentage of exercise sessions completed was 86.6%; NR compliance was > 90%. There were no severe adverse events attributable to study interventions. Secondary endpoints were not significantly different between study arms at study completion. Myostatin decrease was observed in participants who completed a higher median number of exercise sessions and was associated with decreased intramuscular adipose tissue and increased lower extremity muscle cross-sectional area.
[CONCLUSIONS] A telehealth exercise intervention ± NR supplementation was feasible in CCS with prediabetes. Future studies in larger cohorts may be needed to evaluate their beneficial effects on muscle health and DM risk among CCS.

